Searing does not seal moisture in meat; in fact, it causes it to lose some moisture. Meat is seared to brown it, improving its color and flavor.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) does not trigger migraine headaches or other symptoms of so-called Chinese restaurant syndrome, nor is there evidence that some individuals are especially sensitive to MSG.
Twinkies have a shelf life of approximately 45 days (25 in their original formulation)—far shorter than the common (and somewhat jocular) myth that Twinkies are edible for decades or longer. They generally remain on a store shelf for only 7 to 10 days.
Children have not been killed or seriously injured by poisoned candy or fruit given to them by strangers at Halloween or any other time, though there are cases where people have poisoned their own children.
Most food is edible long after its expiration date, with the exception of some perishables.
Seeds are not the spicy part of chili peppers. In fact, seeds contain a low amount of capsaicin, the component which induces the hot sensation in mammals. The highest concentration of capsaicin is located in the placental tissue (the pith) to which the seeds are attached.
Turkey meat is not particularly high in tryptophan, and does not cause more drowsiness than other foods.
Rice does not cause birds to die by inflating their stomachs until they burst. Birds do eat wild rice, though some species avoid it. This common misconception has often led to weddings substituting millet, confetti, or other materials to shower the newlyweds as they leave the ceremony, instead of traditionally throwing rice.
Fortune cookies are not found in Chinese cuisine, despite their ubiquity in Chinese restaurants in the United States. They were invented in Japan and introduced to the US by the Japanese. In China, they are considered American, and are rare.
Spices were not used to mask the flavor of rotting meat before refrigeration. Spices were an expensive luxury item; those who could afford them could afford good meat, and there are no contemporary documents calling for spices to disguise the taste of bad meat.
Steak tartare was not invented by Mongol warriors who tenderized meat under their saddles.
Whipped cream was not invented by François Vatel at the Château de Chantilly in 1671; the recipe is attested at least a century earlier in Italy, but the name crème chantilly only in the 19th century.
Catherine de' Medici and her entourage did not introduce Italian foods to the French royal court and thus create French haute cuisine.
Microwave ovens do not heat food by operating at a special resonance of water molecules in the food but by dielectric heating.
Microwave ovens do not cook food from the inside out. 2.45 GHz microwaves can only penetrate approximately 1 centimeter (3⁄8 inch) into most foods. The inside portions of thicker foods are mainly heated by heat conducted from the outer portions.
Microwave ovens cannot cause cancer, as microwave radiation is non-ionizing, and therefore does not have the cancer risks associated with ionizing radiation such as X-rays. No studies on the cancer risk associated with microwaves have identified any carcinogenicity from microwave radiation, even with exposure levels far greater than is likely for humans to encounter from leaking ovens.
You cannot damage your eyes by looking into microwave ovens. Any heat or radiation that may be associated with harm to the eyes is contained within the oven.
