"Edelweiss" is not the national anthem of Austria, but an original composition created for the musical The Sound of Music. The Austrian national anthem is "Land der Berge, Land am Strome" ("Land of the Mountains, Land on the River"). The edelweiss is Austria's state flower, and was used both in Austria and in Germany as an anti-Nazi symbol.
Phil Collins did not sing his 1981 hit "In the Air Tonight" about witnessing someone drowning and then confronting the person in the audience who let it happen. According to Collins himself, it was about his emotions when divorcing from his first wife.
The melody of "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star", the "Alphabet Song", and "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep" was not composed by Mozart when he was 5 years old; it was already a popular French folk tune when he composed a series of variations on the tune, when he was 25 or 26.
Mozart was not Austrian. During his life, Salzburg was not part of the Archduchy of Austria, but an essentially sovereign state called the Prince-Archbishopric of Salzburg within the Bavarian Circle of the Holy Roman Empire. It was only in 1805, 14 years after his death, that Salzburg was annexed to the Austrian Empire.
Mozart did not die from poisoning, and was not poisoned by his colleague Antonio Salieri or anyone else. The false rumor originated soon after Salieri's death, and was dramatized in Alexander Pushkin's play Mozart and Salieri. The 1984 film Amadeus also suggested Salieri's involvement in Mozart's death, but he was not shown to use poison.
The minuet in G major by Christian Petzold is commonly attributed to Johann Sebastian Bach, although the piece was identified in the 1970s as a movement from a harpsichord suite by Petzold. The misconception stems from Notebook for Anna Magdalena Bach, a book of sheet music by various composers (mostly Bach) in which the minuet is found. Compositions that are doubtful as works of Bach are catalogued as "BWV Anh.", short for "Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis Anhang" ("Bach works catalogue annex"); the minuet is assigned to BWV Anh. 114.
The "Minute Waltz" takes, on average, two minutes to play as originally written. Its name comes from the adjective minute, as in small, and not the noun; it is thus a case of heteronym confusion.
"Don't Worry, Be Happy", written and sung by Bobby McFerrin, is commonly believed to be sung by Bob Marley instead. Indeed, a YouTube video entitled "Bob Marley - Don't worry be Happy" has over 156 million views. However, the famous reggae musician Marley never recorded a version of "Don't Worry, Be Happy", as he died seven years before the song was written. "Three Little Birds," which Marley did write, includes a similar line: "don't worry about a thing, every little thing's gonna be all right."
Absolute or "perfect" pitch is far more common than the oft-cited 1 in 10,000 persons. Its prevalence has been estimated at as high as 1 in 25 persons.